In this lecture we'll see how to set up a local server in your machine in order to run a WordPress website.
If this is not the first time for you to work with Wordpress or PHP and you already know how to
set up a local server,
you can go ahead and skip this lecture.
In order to have a WordPress website up and running, you're gonna need a server to work on and there
are some specifications for your server that WordPress require in order to run properly.
So first you need an HTTP Server. And WordPress recommends using Apache.
And second you need PHP version 5.2.4 or higher.
And finally you need MySQL version 5.0.15 or higher or any version of MariaDB. But you don't need
to have a real server in order to develop WordPress locally.
You can install all of these requirements on your computer and run your website locally. So we can go
ahead and install PHP and Apache and MySQL separately.
However there are many softwares that do that for you without the hassle of dealing with each one separately.
Amongst these softwares are MAMP, WAMP, LAMP, XAMPP, Laragon and many more. And they all do pretty much
the same thing.
In this course I'll be using the MAMP.
It runs on both Windows and Mac. And it's pretty easy to use.
So let's go ahead now and install MAMP. So to install MAMP,
it's a very simple procedure.
I'm on Google Chrome now and I'm gonna google MAMP and it's mamp.info.
So all you have to do is just choose your platform and download it.
It's I think a 300 megabytes download or something like that.
So after downloading and installing MAMP, I am gonna grab my Mac Finder here. And on Windows you can
open the C Drive. And inside of the applications folder in Mac, you will find a couple of folders MAMP and
MAMP PRO. In this course we'll use the regular version MAMP.
So let's now launch the MAMP application.
And as I mentioned we'll use the regular version. And all you have to do here is just press Start Servers. And
this will take a while and then it will open up this information page. And this will contain some information
about your MySQL configuration, reports and the passwords and stuff like that.
And you may have noticed that this page runs on port 8888. So any website that we will install on this
server, we will access it using this URL.
So let's try this out now.
So let's open the MAMP folder. And in the MAMP folder you will find a folder called htdocs. And this is
the folder that you will use in order to put any files that you want to put on the server.
So inside this folder let's create a new folder and let's call it test.
And let's go to localhost and the port and then slash test. And as you can see there is something here
So let's try now and create a new file in this folder that we've just created.
I'm gonna  open my text editor now.
I'm using Visual Studio Code and you can use any text you like. But I really recommend using the Visual Studio Code
if you don't already have a favorite text editor.
But anyways let's open the folder that we just created inside of our text editor.
And let's create a new file index.html. And now inside of this file let's type any text and then save.
And let's go to the browser and refresh.
And as expected we find the text that we just typed.
So now we are ready to install WordPress on this server and create a database and all the stuff required
to run our WordPress websites.
So see you in the next lecture.